We look forward to welcoming you to Lough Hyne Cottage later in the week. Our Eircode is P81P984. Please use this in Google Maps in order to find your way here.

Check in time is 3pm and checkout on your last day will be 10am.

We have included some further details below to help you get settled on arrival. If you have any further questions, please do get in touch.

Steven and Claire

Internet Access:
WiFi Name: Lough Hyne Guest
Password: L0ughHyne

There is limited cell phone coverage. If you are on the 3 or Eir network you will get pretty good coverage in certain spots. If you are on Vodafone or other networks it is very patchy. The best spot for coverage in the cottage is in the window facing south. We know all the other good spots so just ask us and we can help you out!!

Hikki Bathtub -
The Hikki Bath tub will be filled, the fire set, and ready for you to use upon arrival. There will be enough wood and kindling to enjoy the bath for many hours. If you would like to enjoy the bath tub more than once duiring your stay, we have additional wood and kindling available for a charge of 10 euro.

Lough Hyne Cottage Bakery
We bake fresh Organic Sourdough Bread and Pastries for the Skibbereen Farmers market every Saturday morning. If you are staying with us over a Friday night, we offer a breakfast basket which includes a fresh loaf of organic sourdough bread as well as a variety of four artisan pastries. The cost of the breakfast basket is 20 euro. Drop us a note before you arrive and we can make sure we get that to you on Saturday morning.

Our top places of West Cork:

Tokyu Sushi - Piotr produces beautiful sushi. His shop is in Skibbereen.

Customs House Baltimore - 2 Michelin stars! This is a once in a lifetime dining experience.

BabaDe - Sister restaurant to Customs House. Turkish Tapas.

O'Neills coffee shop in Skibbereen - Best coffee in town

Antiquity Vegan Cafe - Lunch, Coffee and stuning vegan chocolate and cherry cake.

Budds in Ballydehob. Great homemade food. Well worth the trip.

The Dock Wall in Union Hall - Ciaran and his team make incredible food.

Bushes Bar- Baltimore, nice for a drink on a sunny evening. They also do great toasties at lunchtime!

The Glandore Inn- A pint with the bestview in Ireland.

Arundel- Beautiful pub in sheep's head with gorgeous food (summer only)

The Chunky Chip - Chipper in Clonakilty.

Levis in Ballydehob. Pints and Music.

Connollys of Leap. Pints and Music.

Waste Water
We use a reed bed system to filter all of our grey water. Greywater is all water that comes from your shower, wash basin and kitchen sink. This all flows directly into the reed bed to be filtered. A reed bed is a natural way of using bul reeds to filter grey water before it is percolated back into the ground for the plants. As this is a natural and living system, We have to be very careful with what we put down our drains.

Nothing with chemicals can be put into the sinks or down the shower. As conventional shampoos and body products typically have a lot of chemicals in them , We have provided you with chemical free shampoo, conditioner and body wash for use during your stay.

Waste / Trash
Compost: Within the cottage, there is a compost bin provided for all organic vegetable matter. Any vegetable, cardboard, paper or biodegradable material should be put in here so we can turn it into yummy food for our garden. If at any stage you would like this emptied, just leave it outside your or our front door and we can pick it up and add it to the current compost pile.

Rubbish: There are two additional bins outside in the outdoor kitchen. One is for recycling (glass, cartons, cans and paper etc) and the other is for anything that will go to landfill.

The Heating
Our heating system uses an air to heat pump. This pump takes heat from the air outside, condenses it and circulates it in pipes under the floor. We burn no fossil fuels. The guest cottage is fitted with an underfloor heating system. Underfloor heating does not work like a conventional heating system where you turn it on and off when needed. Underfloor heating is left on constantly and automatically turns on and off as the room requires. This gives a lovely ambient temperature and a lovely warm floor during the winter.

If you are finding the room too hot or too cold, you can adjust the thermostat inside the main door. We recommend leaving the thermostat at 19 degrees. Please do not increase the temperature above 21 degrees.

Hot Water
Our water system uses an air to heat pump to heat our water. As the hot water tank is located inside the main house, sometimes it may take some time for the hot water to come through to the pipes to the cottage.

Cooking
In the kitchenette, we provide a small fridge, a two ring hob, air fryer, toaster, kettle, nespresso coffee machine. There are various utensils there. If there is anything we have forgotten please ask us as we should have it in the main house.

Swim Towels
There are swim towels provided in the cottage. Please use these rather than the grey shower towels.

Outdoor Kitchen
We have built an outdoor kitchen to give guests a little more space for preparing meals. Here, you will find a large fridge, a barbecue, and the main rubbish bins for the cottage.